Alright. So today we're going to be doing
Intro to React. So React is another front
end framework, and it's not entirely distinct from
HTML CSS. You'll be using the same concepts,
but it's the framework we'll be working with
for our final projects and the framework that's
used everywhere in web dev. But just to
recap, let's talk about HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
again. So if you remember the analogy, we
have HTML skeleton. CSS is the styling and
then JavaScript makes everything work. So for example,
we can talk about the Facebook website again.
And if you have the Facebook website, the
first section might look like this, where we
have a friend section which has a bunch
of divs with a couple of different classes
for styling. It also includes images and things
like that. And maybe just as a warm
up, turn and talk to someone next to
you about what what the main feed might
look like in terms of the HTML. So
it might look something like this. And so
we have a lot of different nested boxes
here. You have to have a couple different
classes for all the different headings that's going
on and all the different styling. And in
essence, it's kind of really messy. And if
you ever open up just developer tools on
any random website on the web, you'll notice
that there's a ton of divs. And if
you want to get to what you're looking
for, it's just a whole big mess. And
so it would be really nice if instead
of having to write all of this up,
we could just write one line and say
build Facebook. But of course, that doesn't make
any sense because we actually have to write
down what we want Facebook to look like.
And so the idea here is we sort
of want to have some sort of modular
framework where we can build Facebook by just
writing down the tag Facebook. But to write
down the tag Facebook, we can define it
in terms of other tags, like the nav
bar, the friends feed, the friends and the
posts in your feed. And if we have
some sort of framework where we can do
this sort of abstraction where we're able to
call some new custom HTML tag and then
use that to render part of the feed,
then we can make our code look a
lot nicer because we can build in modules.
And it can also help us with the
usability if we have different modules that are
repeated. For example, in the feed, there'll be
posts that are repeated over and over. And
it would continue down the tree, you would
define each of these new fake HTML tags,
like navbar, friends, and feed in terms of
other fake HTML tags, or just raw HTML.
So this is the whole idea behind React,
which is a library that's used everywhere for
building your front end. And these fake HTML
tags that I just mentioned are what's called
components, and these are the building blocks for
React. So components are something that you name
yourself. And so they can look anything like
Facebook nav bar post or feed. But it
can be any name you want, but generally
you'll want to name it something that actually
makes sense. But what exactly is a component?
Well, it's some abstraction that tells you how
to render a certain part of the website.
And it's very general. You can do sort
of anything you want with any front end
you want with it. Because within a component,
you're rendering all the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
at once. You can define the actions that
happen when buttons are clicked. You can define
how it looks, and you can define the
actual structure to the HTML. And it's all
neatly packaged into one component that you can
reuse and call to build a part of
your website. And it's sort of like a
function in JavaScript, as Abhi was talking about
in the last two lectures. You call on
this component, and then it returns a part
of your website for you. So going through
Facebook, we can talk about what the components
might look like. So the root level component
is called app, and this is just everything
in your website. And I'm going to be
using a bunch of dash boxes here to
show how the modules appear on the website.
So within this total app component, there's going
to be a number of different components, like
the nav bar, the info bar, which has
all your friends and things like that, and
then your feed, which has all your posts.
And these components can also be further broken
down. For example, the feed component can be
broken down into further smaller components that you
build, like the post components. And these post
components can be broken down into even smaller
components, such as the actual content of the
post and the post body and comments that
appear below it. And you can see that
there's this dependency. Each component depends on other
components that make it up. And the structure
is a bit like a tree, and we
call this the component tree. And so it
makes sense why the app component is called
the root, because it's the root of the
tree. And the arrows indicate dependencies. So app
depends on the three components, navbar, feed and
info bar, because that's what's used to build
it. And then feed depends on posts, and
posts depends on the content and the comments.
Basically, in summary, the main idea of React
is having these components that depend on other
components and that can be reused. So these
are all function calls, and you call on
the function to build a part of your
website. And that makes it really nice because
now you can see what your website looks
like. When you're writing up this website, instead
of having a bunch of divs, you instead
have a post body, which is composed of
posts and comments, and then a feed, which
is composed of post bodies, which is composed
of posts and things like that. Within each
component, can put whatever HTML, CSS, JavaScript you
want to have any sort of front functionality
that you need. So that's the summary of
how components work in React. But to actually
make them work, there's a couple of key
features that we need to know about. So
for example, if we have a comment, even
if there are a bunch of different comments,
are approximately the same, they're not entirely the
same. So they don't have the exact same
HTML, so we need to be able to
generalize it. The way we're going to be
doing this is or sorry, start, the things
that can differ between comments are things like
the actual content of the comment, author of
the comment, when it's posted, and even the
profile picture. But the general structure of it's
the same in terms of how the HTML
elements are ordered with respect to each other.
So to be able to reuse this, reuse
the skeleton where we have the same structure
and the Like and Reply buttons are the
same, we want to have some sort of
input to our comment. And these are what
are called props. So just like your functions
have inputs, your components also can take in
inputs and then render a part of your
website based on those inputs. So for the
case of our comment, since we want to
have the author name, the actual content of
the comment, the picture profile picture, and the
date posted to vary along the comments, we
can pass in these props, these inputs to
the comment component, and then get out a
comment that we want. So this sort of
structure where we have post which depends on
comments is we call the one where the
arrow starts, the parent, and the one where
the arrow ends, the child. And props are
passed from the parent to the child, indicating
what they want the child to render. So
when you add in the props of Kenny
Choi and the comment and then posted a
minute ago, then you can render the comment
that you want. One thing of note is
when you pass in the prop, you can't
mutate the prop on the side of the
child. Or you can do things with the
props. So just like if you take in
a function and, say, you take in a
number, you can do calculations of the number,
but you can't change the number itself. So
these props are determined within the parent, and
it's passed down to the child, and they
can't be changed by the child. And also
another thing is you also can't pass the
props from child to parent. So the main
thing with props is it lets us generalize
these React components. And if we have a
component which has parts of it which are
variable, then we can pass in these variables
to indicate how we want it to render.
But that's how we actually render something that
changes over time. But how do we actually
keep track of what's changing on the website?
Because these props are not mutable. And so
if our website is updating over time, let's
say more comments are flooding in, then we
need a way to keep track of what
we want to render on our website. To
do this, we're going to use something called
the state. So this is the second important
part of React components. And these are actually
just the main two, props and states. So
state is some sort of information maintained by
a component. It's not something that's taken in
by a component. And it's something that's mutable,
unlike props. And it's something that you can
update with whatever logic you want within your
JavaScript. So for example, in the case of
our posts and comments, within the post we
can maintain the state which has a list
of comments. So we can have an array
which contains the first comment and then another
comment and just maintain the state of comments
which can change over time. And we use
this state to pass down props to the
child components of the comments. And once we
pass this down, the comment components can render
the comments that we have within the state.
Why do we keep the comment data in
the post state and not the comment state?
Well, the post state is sort of the
larger component, and it contains all the comments.
And we want to know which comments to
render when in the post state. So can't
maintain these within the comment states because we
don't know how many comments to have. So
for example, if we add another comment, then
we don't have another comment component where we
can store that state. So we need to
have it in the post state so that
we can actually render the x number of
comments that we need. So in this example,
if we add another comment, we need to
be able to render that additional comment. But
if we didn't have the state within the
post, we wouldn't be able to do that.
We can go through another example of using
states and props. So there's a feature on
Facebook where you can hit view replies to
a comment. And you interact with it by
clicking on the button, and the website needs
to adjust by rendering these comment replies. Turn
and talk to a neighbor about which of
these options is best for showing comment replies.
So in this case, the best thing to
do is to store the state show replies
within the comment component. So this is the
same structure as the previous one, except now
our comment component is the parent component. And
it needs to maintain whether or not to
render the replies, which are its children components.
So if we maintain this showReply state within
the common component, we can toggle it to
be true or false. And then if it's
true, then we'll render its children components, which
are the replies. So as another recap, the
state is some information that you store within
a component. And it is just what it
is. It stores the state of the component,
which determines how it renders things and how
it renders its children. And it's mutable, and
you can use the states and pass it
down into children components as props to determine
what to render. And here's an overall review
of what's going on here. And we have
states and props. Again, the states are passed
down into the children components, and it renders.
So that's the basic structure of React and
React components. Are there any questions so far?
Okay. If not, then I'll pass it off
to Sanveth for an actual practical application. Cool.
So we've seen a little bit about how
React can help you with abstraction, as well
as reusability with components, making your websites a
lot cleaner to code up. So let's see
how that actually looks like in code. And
my workflow for this is going to be
starting with the hard coded version where we're
directly writing in all the information you'd need
to render something, and then slowly rolling it
back and abstracting it away. So let's start
with this pretty simple component here. It's just
a common reply, not too much information. Critically,
it's just the name and the content. Yeah,
so let's look at the code for a
general React component. Three things that you're going
to need in every file that you write.
First, you need to import React. Again, React
is a library. It's not built into JavaScript.
So you'll need to first import React. We're
also going to import this useState thing. That's
going to help us with maintaining state. More
on that later. Next, we have to actually
define our component. So I want you to
start thinking of these components as functions. And
a function is just like a fancy name
for something with inputs and outputs. Right? Our
inputs in this case are going to be
whatever props are passed down to us from
a parent component. And our output is just
going to be what we render on the
actual page. Finally, we have to export the
component. And this will let us reuse it
in top level components. So again, I want
you to start thinking of components as functions
that take in props and then output something
to be rendered. As Evan mentioned before, a
React component kind of bundles together a bunch
of JavaScript logic, as well as HTML rendering,
and as well as CSS. So going back
to the function analogy, you can think of
the logic of the function as all the
JavaScript. And then what you want to render
is something called JSX. It's kind of similar
to HTML. I'll explain it a little bit
in a bit. But that's the general idea.
So let's try to render this comment reply.
As you can see, it looks very similar
to what we've done before. We'll just create
a div, and then, again, we're hard coding
right now, so we'll just add in the
header and then some text. But of course,
this isn't what we want our end goal
to be. We want to be able to
reuse this component for any arbitrary name or
common text. And this is where we use
props. Okay. If you'll recall, props are just
like an object that's passed down into your
function. And the way that we extract information
from objects in JavaScript is by using this
dot thing. So we'll just do props. Name,
props dot content. And now that we've done
that, we've removed all the hard code away,
we can easily reuse this component to render
at least the name and the content. Okay.
So right. What is JSX? I mentioned that
it's very similar to HTML, and it is.
But there are a couple of differences. So
one difference is that in JSX, you can
actually escape into JavaScript as well if you
want to do some logic within your component.
So for example, you can see here within
the curly braces, what's going on inside of
there isn't actually HTML, right? It's JavaScript because
we're unpacking something from an object. So anytime
we want to extract something from props, we'll
have to use these curly braces. Also notice
that instead of class, which we would normally
use if we wanted to style something with
CSS, we're using class name. And that's because
class is already a thing in JavaScript. So
we can't just use the same thing again.
But yeah, for most purposes, you can kind
of think of them as the same thing.
Just remember those two things about escaping so
that you can use JavaScript and class name.
Okay, right. So we've talked about props a
little bit. Let's move on to talking about
state. So in our components, we had two
things that could easily be passed down from
the parent into this component. But something like
a Like button, it doesn't really make sense
to store that in the parent, right? Because
we can just do that in each modular
comment reply. So how about we let this
component maintain the state by itself? The syntax
for maintaining state is as follows up here,
and you'll get some more practice with this,
so don't worry if you don't understand it
at first. But the idea is to initialize
a state, you'll write const, and then you'll
have to put the state variable as well
as the state setter. The state variable is
just the state itself, and the setter is
a function that can mutate the state. And
then you set that equal to useState, which
is like initializing it. And then within those
parentheses over there is the initial value. So
this is like initializing isLiked to false. And
it's also giving us a function that can
change it. So let's use our state to
render the like function. There's some styling missing
here, but the general idea is that we
just want if isLiked is true, then we
display liked. And then if it's not, then
we put like to see that you can
like it. The syntax that I have here
might be new to some of you. But
again, we have it in curly braces because
it's in JavaScript. It's JavaScript logic. So the
statement is called a ternary. And it's just
like an if else statement, but written a
little bit more clean, or not clean, depending
on what you like. But you'll put the
condition here, then a question mark. And then
if the condition is true, then it'll return
this. And if it's not, then it'll return
that. So if isLiked is true, then we're
going to display liked as we want. And
if it's not, then we're going to put
liked. And now, skipping a little things, we
have a nice component that we can reuse.
And, yeah, it doesn't matter what the name
or the message is. We can use this
for basically anything. Okay. I'll stop for questions
real quick. Cool. Now that we've written our
first component, let's try to work through an
entire web page. So the first thing that
we need to do is understand the structure
of this thing. So let's try to work
through and generate the component tree that Evan
was talking about earlier. In any web page,
the root is going to be just this
app component, which will contain everything. And let's
try to look for some other components in
here. So some things that we can think
of are, first, the nav bar. That seems
like it's pretty modular, and we might want
to abstract things away in that. The intro
seems like it can also be combined into
one specific component. Photos would be nice to
keep, abstracts it away. And then post is
definitely something that we want to reuse many,
many times. That's a great candidate for a
component. Here's what a tree looks like. We
have app at the top level, and it
depends on all of these different components. To
reiterate, React components are powerful because they can
help us with abstraction and reusability. And again,
abstraction means putting a bunch of things into
a black box so that you won't have
to look at fine details and stuff. But
you can reuse it by just importing it
and then writing down the name of it.
And reusability, I think, is pretty clear. So
yeah, navbar, intro, photos, they're all great to
keep as components because you'll abstract away messy
code that you don't want to look at
every time you look at your web page.
And post is helpful for both abstraction as
well as your usability, because we're going to
have many posts on a single page. And
again, my workflow for this is going to
be starting with the hard coded version and
then rolling it back to a more abstracted
and reusable module. So let's start with the
app. Okay, this one I'll just start off
with, fully modular. But you can see that
this app is very simple. All it does
is instantiate all of these different components, And
there's really not that much more to it.
One thing that we are missing is props.
So if you'll recall from the tree, all
these different components were like direct children of
the app component, which means the app is
responsible for passing down props into those ones.
The syntax to pass down props in React
is very similar to attributes in HTML. You
can set a variable inside of your props
object by doing this kind of thing. So
write the variable that equals the value. So
if we wanted to add props into our
components, this is what it would look like.
So, for example, in intro, we'd want to
know the education and the city of whatever
person this profile is of, so we pass
that down. Photos, we want to pass down
maybe the paths to all the photos that
we have in our database somewhere. And then
the post, obviously we want the name and
the content. All right, let's look at some
of these children components. And again, we're starting
hard coded and then rolling it back. So
the intro here, pretty simple. It just has
two pieces of information, wherever you study at
and wherever you're from. Let's try to roll
it back using the props. Again, remember that
every React component is just a function that
takes props and turns it into something to
render. So assuming that we get the props,
all we need to do is just access
those attributes of the props. So use curly
braces, then props.education, and then for the city,
props.city. Let's look at photos. So photos is
a little bit more complicated. To render this
component, we want to have access to all
images that will be used here. So we
have like seven pictures in Kenny's Facebook page.
Oh, Okay. Let me explain this. So this
thing here is mapping each of the photos
into an image elements in JSX. And the
syntax for this is using this map function.
So dot map takes in a function, and
it'll apply that function to each element of
an array. So for example, we have this
array of photos. And then because we're using
dot map, it'll turn each of those different
images into a JSX element. And that's why
we can have all the images laid out
together. And I think you'll get some more
practice with this later. But good to know.
If we wanted to reactify this, then we
can replace all those image links with just
props, which we'll pass down from app. So
comparing to what we had before, we just
replace the my links thing with props. Links,
and it looks a whole lot cleaner. Next,
let's look at the post. Post is, again,
pretty simple. We have the name and then
the content. We also also have the Like
button, which maybe uses something other than props.
But let's first look at those props things.
Very similar to the intro, we're just going
to access those things using JavaScript. Okay, let's
talk about the Like button. So for the
Like button, we probably aren't going to be
passing down a prop to denote whether it's
liked or not, because it's something very intrinsic
to the component. And it's not like one
of those cases that Evan mentioned before where
you'd like to have it up in a
higher level thing. So let's just use state
to implement the Like button once again. We
also want to implement the functionality of when
the button is clicked, like button will change
state. And that makes it a really good
candidate for state. We're going to use the
same syntax as before. And this is where
we're going to use that useState thing that
we imported. So again, we'll have const, and
then we have an array that's defined as
is liked. Or we have is liked and
then set is liked. The first one is
the state. The next one is the state
setter. Then we initialize that to false using
useState. And over here is actually an attribute
called onClick. So whenever you're rendering a button,
there's an attribute for whenever the button is
clicked. And that's onClick. So onClick, you'll set
equal to a function that you want to
be called every time the button gets clicked.
So as an example here, onClick is set
equal to this callback function that just like
or not callback, but a function that sets
isLiked to whatever it wasn't before. So they
use an exclamation mark here. And this will
basically just toggle isLiked every time you click
the button. And then within that, we're rendering
the same thing that we had before with
the comment reply. So it's the conditional statement
again. If isLiked is true, then we're going
to say liked. And if it's not, then
we're going say liked. Don't worry if this
is a little bit confusing to you right
now. We're rushing through things a lot. There's
a lot to cover, but you'll get some
practice with this in the workshop and later
today with more on React Hooks. So reiterating,
the set is like function. Within the parentheses,
it'll set it to whatever value is in
there. So every time onClick is true, then
we're going to set isLiked to be the
opposite of whatever it was before. Okay. Yeah,
so that was a whole lot about React.
Definitely don't worry if you don't get all
the things that I talked about. We have
a guide for you to review. Very helpful.
Always come back to it. So weblab. Isreactguide.
And just to recap, React is useful because
we can do abstraction and readability. We want
to divide our app into just a bunch
of components. One component goes in each file,
and then each component will bundle together some
JavaScript logic and then output some JSX. And
the syntax for doing that is below. Props
and state are the name of the game
with React. We'll pass in props using the
attribute syntax. And then we read those props
by accessing as a JavaScript object. For state,
we're going to declare states as the syntax
that I showed you. And we can always
set our state by calling the set function
with the value that we want to set
it to. All right. And make sure to
use class name instead of class whenever you're
doing styling.